---
course_id: 7553
quiz_id: 53475
id: 366292
type: multiple_choice_question
sources:
- name: Data Fetching in React
  url: "/courses/7553/pages/data-fetching-in-react"
---

# Data Fetching

Natasha is building a Twitter clone, and is trying to fetch some data from the
Twitter API when her App component loads. What is the best approach to doing
this?

## Correct

Using the `useEffect` hook to fetch all the tweets she initially needs.

> Correct! The `useEffect` hook is a great tool for this feature, since we can use
> the `useEffect` hook to fetch data only when the component first loads.

## Incorrect

Making the user click a button and handling the fetch request in the click event
handler.

> Not quite. Since Natasha wants to fetch data when her component loads, she
> shouldn't need to set up a click event handler. The `useEffect` hook is a better
> tool for this feature, since we can use the `useEffect` hook to fetch data only
> when the component first loads.

## Incorrect

Making the fetch request directly in the body of the component function.

> Unfortunately this won't work! Since the body of the component function runs
> every time the component renders, Natasha would likely end up with an infinite
> loop of fetching data/setting state/re-rendering the component.
> The`useEffect`hook is a better tool for this feature, since we can use
> the`useEffect` hook to fetch data only when the component first loads.

## Incorrect

I don't know.

> Be sure to study the source/s for this question. You'll get it next time.
