---
course_id: 7553
quiz_id: 53475
id: 366293
type: multiple_choice_question
sources:
- name: Data Fetching in React
  url: "/courses/7553/pages/data-fetching-in-react"
---

# Data Fetching

Natasha now wants her users to be able to update their profiles in her Twitter
clone. A user should be able to update their profile by filling out and
submitting a form. She'll then need to take the data from the form and send it
to her backend by making a `PATCH` request.

Should she handle this action with the `useEffect` hook, or by attaching an
event listener?

## Correct

**Event listener** , because she only wants the fetch to fire when the user is done updating their profile.

> Correct! The `useEffect` hook is only helpful for running code as a side-effect
> of the component rendering. In the case of this feature, Natasha doesn't need to
> wait for the component to re-render in order to run the code to make the
> `PATCH`request, so using `useEffect` is not necessary. She can simply make the
> request when the `submit` event is triggered for the form.

## Incorrect

`useEffect`, because she needs the data immediately when the page loads.

> The `useEffect` hook is helpful for running code as a side-effect of the
> component rendering. In the case of this feature, Natasha doesn't need to wait
> for the component to re-render in order to run the code to make
> the`PATCH`request. She can simply make the request when the `submit` event is
> triggered for the form.

## Incorrect

I don't know.
